README.md, before:

# Twilio Flex Plugin Template

This is a template Twilio Flex Plugin, demonstrating many of the typical coding chores that are required when building a plugin.

## Setup

Make sure you have [Node.js](https://nodejs.org) as well as [`npm`](https://npmjs.com). We support Node >= 10.12 (and recommend the _even_ versions of Node). Afterwards, install the dependencies by running `npm install`:

```bash
cd plugin-template

# If you use npm
npm install
```
## Development

- Find all "TODO" comments in the code. These require some editing.
- The string values below need to be changed. Note that this includes some file names as well.
  - TemplatePlugin --> new plugin class name
  - plugin-template --> new plugin name
- There are explanatory comments that start with the word "Note" throughout the code. Feel free to read and delete these.
- Change the `name` and `description` of your plugin in the `package.json` file.
- Copy appConfig.example.js in `public` to appConfig.js and ake any changes you need.

### Client UI
The template contains code for a variety of use cases. Some should be useful generally whereas other code will demonstrate a technique but you will need to make changes to suit your particulars. For example, it demonstrates showing a CRM in Panel2 and it does this with Hubspot. So you will probably need to modify this part of the template.

### Serverless
The `plugin-template-fns` sub-folder contains sample Serverless functions. You will probably want to rename this folder (or remove it if you don't need any Serverless functions).

The `get-sync-token` function provides the client with a Sync token as part of demonstrating the use of Twilio Sync.

## Configuration
The serverless functions depend on a set of environment variables. Those are documented in the module comment-block inside `get-sync-token.js`. A sample environment file, `.env.sample`, is located in the `plugin-template-fns` subfolder. It should be copied to `.env` and then edited with the correct values.

Similarly, the client application depends on environment variables during development and testing against the local web server. These variables are also used when the plugin is built and deployed to the Twilio cloud (see below). For this, the project contains a sample environment file, `.env.sample`, in the root folder. Again, it should be copied to `.env` for editing with the correct values. Note that this file provides so-called "React environment variables" whose names must start with the string, `REACT_APP_`.

Run `twilio flex:plugins --help` to see all the commands currently supported by the Flex Plugins CLI. For further details refer to documentation on the [Flex Plugins CLI docs](https://www.twilio.com/docs/flex/developer/plugins/cli) page.

## Deploy
The plugin can be built and deployed with the `deploy` command of the Flex CLI. To be activated in your Flex project runnning at `flex.twilio.com` you must use the `release` command. This allows you to install this and, optionally, other Flex plugins together. Again, refer to the docs cited above for more information.

## WARNING
This code is supplied on a best-effort basis, without warranty, and should be carefully reviewed and tested prior to use. It is provided for instructional purposes only. Also, it makes use of a personal npm package by the author (i.e., `jlafer-flex-util`). That package should not be treated as production-grade and you are advised to use with care.

Commit message:

moved serverless code under plugin-serverless dir

README.md, after:

# Twilio Flex Plugin Template

This is a template Twilio Flex Plugin, demonstrating many of the typical coding chores that are required when building a plugin.

## Setup

Make sure you have [Node.js](https://nodejs.org) as well as [`npm`](https://npmjs.com). We support Node >= 10.12 (and recommend the _even_ versions of Node). Afterwards, install the dependencies by running `npm install`:

```bash
cd plugin-template

# If you use npm
npm install
```
## Development

- Find all "TODO" comments in the code. These require some editing.
- The string values below need to be changed. Note that this includes some file names as well.
  - TemplatePlugin --> new plugin class name
  - plugin-template --> new plugin name
- There are explanatory comments that start with the word "Note" throughout the code. Feel free to read and delete these.
- Change the `name` and `description` of your plugin in the `package.json` file.
- Copy appConfig.example.js in `public` to appConfig.js and ake any changes you need.

### Client UI
The template contains code for a variety of use cases. Some should be useful generally whereas other code will demonstrate a technique but you will need to make changes to suit your particulars. For example, it demonstrates showing a CRM in Panel2 and it does this with Hubspot. So you will probably need to modify this part of the template.

### Serverless
The `plugin-template-fns` sub-folder contains sample Serverless functions. You will probably want to rename this folder (or remove it if you don't need any Serverless functions).

The `get-sync-token` function provides the client with a Sync token as part of demonstrating the use of Twilio Sync.

## Configuration
The serverless functions depend on a set of environment variables. Those are documented in the module comment-block inside `get-sync-token.js`. A sample environment file, `.env.sample`, is located in the `plugin-template-fns` subfolder. It should be copied to `.env` and then edited with the correct values.

Similarly, the client application depends on environment variables during development and testing against the local web server. These variables are also used when the plugin is built and deployed to the Twilio cloud (see below). For this, the project contains a sample environment file, `.env.sample`, in the root folder. Again, it should be copied to `.env` for editing with the correct values. Note that this file provides so-called "React environment variables" whose names must start with the string, `REACT_APP_`.

Run `twilio flex:plugins --help` to see all the commands currently supported by the Flex Plugins CLI. For further details refer to documentation on the [Flex Plugins CLI docs](https://www.twilio.com/docs/flex/developer/plugins/cli) page.

## Deploy
To deploy the functions for this plugin, use the Twilio CLI and the Serverless Toolkit plugin while in the `plugin-serverless` folder. First, ensure that the CLI is using the correct Twilio project; you can verify that by running `twilio profiles:list`. The following command will deploy the functions to a service environment on the Twilio Serverless platform:
```
twilio serverless:deploy
```

Use the generated service environment domain name as the value for `REACT_APP_SERVERLESS_URI` in the appropriate .env file in the parent (plugin) folder.

The plugin can be built and deployed with the `deploy` command of the Flex CLI. To be activated in your Flex project runnning at `flex.twilio.com` you must use the `release` command. This allows you to install this and, optionally, other Flex plugins together. Again, refer to the docs cited above for more information.

## WARNING
This code is supplied on a best-effort basis, without warranty, and should be carefully reviewed and tested prior to use. It is provided for instructional purposes only. Also, it makes use of a personal npm package by the author (i.e., `jlafer-flex-util`). That package should not be treated as production-grade and you are advised to use with care.
